And all of us in a group would walk wherever the
party was. For instance, one night we met down here
on Texas Avenue, I guess that's about 33rd Street,
and walked out to home, not down by where I was born,
a couple of blocks beyond, in a group. And then we
all walked back to that same house and then made it
around the very home where the girl lived. It
wasn't any of them to spend the night. I was
accustomed with that girl. I usually met her at the
girl's
house. And we always had a class party every year in
school, grade school. different homes around,
but I was there, of course, they were afternoon
parties. How about birthday parties, Mac, in
those days? Was that just a family affair, or would
you have... No, they'd have big men, big birthday
parties. That was a big thing.
And, uh...
Yeah, a dancing teacher came in, set up a class, I
guess that was long, about 1913. That was the first
one I ever heard
of. My mother put me in the class.
I was the only boy, about 14 girls. Well,
did you enjoy it? Hell no. She whipped me every day
before I agreed to go. Sometimes you'd have to
crawl along. But they was a girl just about right
for me, and they paired us. And I felt sorry for her
because she had to dance with me every class, the
whole thing. No changing around. Of course, what
we enjoyed most in those days, they had a skating
rink way down on Washington Street.
That was a real attraction. We enjoyed that much
more than trying to dance. We started at that
maybe, well, I guess I was five years old when I
started going there to skate. And it continued,
and lots of grown people, all ages. My mother was a
wonderful skater. Did they have shoe skates in
those days? Yeah. The whole unit together, or just
the clamp-ons? They had them. Oh, they clamped on.
That was the only kind they had. Oh. Well, those
others, they had the ice skates. Well, they have
some roller skate now that are the shoe and
everything all together. Well, it's been so long.
The tees, they fit you. You wore you right in the
shoes.
My mother, as I say, was a wonderful skater. My
father was clubbed in his hands. He didn't bust his
ass. What are you talking about? That's all right.
Why he didn't break himself, all the pieces, I'll
never know. But all ages can.
That's pretty interesting. Getting back away
from the social activities a little bit, and right
about the time of the First World War, speaking of,
or just before, they were building locks out here
on the river for river navigation, I understand.
Well, that was quite... What did you think about
that, or what did the people think about that? That
was much farther back. They were going to make the
Pazos River navigable to what the port was so they
could compete with Galveston.
They wanted to. take it all the way up to beyond wake
who i think it's so much closer down as important
was and then they tried to start work on on the
trinity river we never did what but they put in a
lock and down as they call it they put in several
along i noticed one by her It was called Port
Sullivan. And they had one down just this side of
Navasota. Well, up in those days at Port Sullivan,
could you see anything of the buildings that had
been there at one time? Was Port Sullivan really
still in existence then? It had been abandoned.
But it's right close to Valley Junction, you see.
That's where you change cars. the Southern
Pacific to go to Houston if you wanted to go on the
R&G end. And then from the R&G end came from Austin
and San Antonio to Diamond Junction and change
that to go to Houston or Diamond. See, there's a
nice little great garden. The real, the main road
was from I went to San Antonio, St. Louis. I went to
Austin. I went to Austin, Palestine. I didn't go to
Dallas or Fort Worth. I missed one in Brown. In
Brown, I went to Spur.
I went down to Houston. to Valley Junction.
How about after World War II, the main
agricultural business was still counting in the
area? You mean World War I? World War I, I beg your
pardon. It continued to be that. only cash crop
until Roosevelt's administration when he put in
the farm program and paid people not to raise
cotton and corn and encouraged them to get into the
cattle and grain solvent business. That's when
you had the development of grain solvents and also
your livestock in this country. Up to that time,
they didn't have any improved pastures.
They just had old common crossbred cattle. Nobody
had any good cattle. And that, you know, Brazos
County land is probably the poorest in the state,
the natural land. It's either blow sand or hard
pastures. One of the two. But since that
time, in the early 30s, they have been improving
the land so much that it's real good for grazing. It
never was intended for cotton. But when I was a boy,
they planted cotton to
the fence. And they planted just enough corn to
feed their own cattle.
And, of course, everything was farmed by mules,
most of the mule feed. Now, of course, they had a few
horses to ride. The more affluent had buckets.
Some had celery.
We had a horse and buggy when I was a child.
Kept that until about 19.
I guess 15.
Well, the Lawrence family seems to have stayed in a
pretty high position of affluence throughout. I
don't know much about the Howells. The Howells?
The Howell family you mentioned? I'm not sure
about it. Well, no, actually, the Lawrence family
has always been just able to get by and scratch like
hell, always in a bind. The Howells were the
richest family in the Bronx. They owned
everything. They even got into retail grocery
business. And then... They got into wholesale
grocery business. Howling Company did every bit
as much, maybe a little more business than
Lawrence Grocers Company. And that was just one of
their interests. Lawrence Grocers Company, that
was my father's main interest, almost. Well, he
had a little interest for almost a long time. And
that was a frustration.
for a long time before he acquired
control of the stock market. So after he started
out, he owned about 40% of it. Maybe
not quite that many. Well? In fact, he never did
acquire control in his own name, but in the 20s,
I wanted to sell his stock. My father recommended
that I buy it, and I did. That gave us control of the
two of us. Well, we had $102,000 worth of stock and
$200,000 worth of corporation. That's the
control we had. The Howells had nobody else
interested in the family. the old gentleman and
his three sons. What's happened to the Howell
family since then? Well, they've all died out, and
the only one who has left married a Navasota girl,
and he moved down there and operated the
lumberyard down there for a long time. sold his
interest down there and then moved back here. But
he's always been retired. Now, he's an unusually
well-fixed man himself. He inherited a lot of
money. He made a lot of money. But his wife was four
more than he is. She's now a soldier. Her father was
a doctor down there. He made a hell of a lot of money
and died. Her mother. Is this going on the record?
John, this will just be reviewed by graduate
students. Well, no, Douglas. By mature people.
You know, you can use any kind of language you want.
Douglas and I, we were raised with it. He's raised
where the city national bank is now. We played
together. He's less than a year older than I am. But
anyhow, his wife wasn't born here. She owned land
down there around Nalasota. He inherited a lot of
land here around Bob. Like I said, he's made a lot of
money himself, but he inherited it. John, can you
tell us a little bit about your mother a little
more? More or
less what she used to do, how she kept the house, not
whether she kept it well, I'm sure, but did she have
servants helping her? What kind of good food did
she make for you? Well, at the start, she didn't
have any help. Me and my father married, they
didn't have any help at all. But then after we moved
down on by the first bank here now, she began to keep
cooking, as we called it. And she always managed to
have a good one. But my mother was a wonderful cook
and homemaker. And she'd take those niggers with
no training at all, just no time at all. She'd make
them into wonderful cooks. and servants, and they
could serve the table and everything. Do you
remember any special foods that we used to cook
then or prepare then that we don't nowadays? Or
let's say, what was your favorite?
Well, my favorite always was meat and bread and
rice and gravy and potatoes. But my mother had gone
to a convent when she was a child, And they had a rule
that everybody had to eat some of everything on the
table. And my mother took that into effect too for
me, but of course she couldn't make my father eat
it. And she believed in lots of different
vegetables all the time. And as a result, I had to
eat some of everything that was put on, even if it
was just a teaspoon for her. But as a result, I
acquired a taste for most everything. And I like
everything now except squash. My mother, for some
reason, didn't serve squash, and I didn't like to
eat it, and my wife had me there, and she begged me to
let her. John, where did you meet your wife? At the
University of Texas. At the University of Texas.
In fact... My father said she's on the most wild
thing I brought home from university or anything.
He was crazy about it. But she was from Palestine.
Of course, we married in 1920 and have lived here
ever since. She feels like she's from Gaza. And you
have a son, I gather, the lawyer? Yes, we have just
the one child now. We had a daughter, but we lost her
at 72 at age 44. But she had three children, and my
son had two. So we have five grandchildren.
Wow. Only one of them lives in Brown. That's the
youngest. She's still in high school. But one of my
granddaughters married a man who lives down in the
bottom.
She teaches school here in Brown. But we see her
quite often. One of our grandsons is in Dallas. The
other grandson is in Rua Dolce, New Mexico. The
other granddaughter lives in Denton. No
great-grandchildren yet? I'm about given up.
This granddaughter teaches and has been married
six years. This grandson lives in Dallas and has
been married two and a half years. And my
granddaughter that lives in Denver was married
about four years before she got a divorce. She was
single. So
with that much exposure and no very
grandchildren, I don't know that I'll ever have
it. Well, we'll keep open, waiting. John, there is
one item I forgot to ask that I know over in Brenham
around First World War. I guess they're lot of
anti-german feelings in the in a german community
or there's a lot of mixtures did they have this
problem here were there a number of german people
here that were getting into i thought we were
getting into the wrong war we had some in 19 18 17
and 18 but very lovely there was Most of those
people were loyal Americans, and they explained
that. Now, some of those other counties, people of
German extraction, they had quite a bit of
feeling. We had lots of Italians here. And in World
War II, there was some feeling that they were all
loyal Americans. John, do you remember, there
are, of course, quite a few prominent Italians in
the community now. Do you remember when these
Italian families first began moving into here?
And did they come in with money, or did they just...
No, most of them came in, came from the old country,
as they called it, and steerage, and they made
their way. Sidon... ones uh did well they worked
hard they're the hardest working people that
there is and that's the problem that made the order
for them and as they had become affluent and could
they would send money back and bring others over
and help them get started maybe work them
themselves maybe rent them a little land help them
get credit to make a crop. And then they'd bring
the, if they were already married, they'd bring
the married wives over, the children. Some of them
brought the girls, the sweethearts over and
married here. But they all worked. And then I chose
this Beresko family. That's a case in point.
And a man built up substantial means for old man
Tony Beresko over here and helped him get
established. And he brought his family over and
started them out. This brother, Floresco, who was
an outstanding man, he came over with his mother in
the steerage, joined his father.
He made quite a bit of money on his own. The whole
family now, all of those children did well. I
suppose as a president of the bank, you saw a lot of
development here in Bryan, economic
development, a lot of success stories. I thought
maybe we'll take a break just for a moment here. But
I wanted to ask you, if you were talking to your
great-grandson someday, what advice that you'd
give to him to succeed in life and to, as well as
economically, just to be a good person and a good
citizen? I tell you, I told my children and
grandchildren, first, keep the very best company
possible. Second, choose a worthy objective, a
challenge. Third, work at it hard. and live for the
best things in life. Well, that seems like mighty
fine advice. Well, it is the best I ever was, even if
it isn't mine. Well, John, is there anything that
you can think that you'd like to take that you might
be especially interested in other people hearing
about?
Well, I think first that what development, and it
seems phenomenal to me, is due to the economic
thrust provided by Texas A&M. And second,
Brown and College Station were both, you might
say, blessed with good substantial ambitious
people who were able to benefit from that economic
thrust. And although there were two factions here
and two factions at A&M, those factions worked
together and competing with each other they
brought out the best in each other. And so
different factions pool their resources to
develop businesses really worthwhile. For
instance, the banks and then this building in Long
Hill was organized in 1919. Of course, it's been a
tremendous success. It was organized as a chamber
of commerce project, and both factions supported
it. Now, they each had a bank. There was a third bank
of people that didn't belong to either faction,
but all three banks worked for this association.
and due to the economic thrust provided by A&M, it
grew to its present size. John Beck, how do you
think Brian fared during the Great Depression of
29? Well, it was one of the bright spots in the
nation. We thought we had it rough, but we didn't
have it bad. We didn't have a bank failure. We had
practically no business failure. We had very
little unemployment.
So you think it did generally better than probably
most of the rest of the country? Well, with the
exception of Boston, it was the best town in Texas.
Of
course, it was due to that tax money. That's what
kept Boston so good. No doubt about that. But those
people out there, they didn't get a cut until 1935
or something when they were beginning to come out
of the Depression. And they cut those people's
salaries. But in the meantime, they kept this town
going. That's interesting. You know, you
retired, I think, at about the time that the air
base closed out here. Is that true? Somewhere near
that? Oh, I stayed on a while after they had closed.
And I just wondered whether there was any
excitement about the base closing and panic
selling. Oh, yes. People cried out that we were
ruined. No, it seems like it's grown tremendously
since then. Yes, a little bit. It kept going. But it
didn't affect us. It was a big thing, but it didn't
compare with what Texas A&M did.
But then
in the 50s, we began to develop some industry here.
Well, up to that time, all we had was a cotton
warehouse and compress oil mill, and then they
began to bring in this industry.
Now that's a major contributor to the economic
situation. You think that's pretty good for the
town? Yes, it's good. Keep developing. Take this
old line coal, send a knife, no furniture, no New
businesses out on the west bypass. They employ
lots of people.
And they were all located here because of the
proximity to Texas A&M. In order to be able to take
care of that, or take advantage of that research
foundation. That's why International Shoe
came in here. Lenko came in here because
All Britain was a graduate of A&M, and he had so much
labor trouble in Houston, he had to move around. So
he moved, he chose Brown because of his love for
A&M. That's quite
a bonus. Of course,
then it's obvious that A&M played a pretty big role
here in the community. But people on the right that
the importance of that research foundation. They
give credit to the extension service and the
experiment station, and I'm certainly not taking
anything away from them. They do a whole lot. That
research foundation does a whole lot more than it
gets credit for.
Well, John, I guess we're just about at the end,
unless you have anything more that you'd like to
add. No, I don't know. Hang on. I don't know that
this would be of any interest to you. Oh, yeah, this
is going to be interesting, but I'll tell you, by
tonight, I'll probably think of about 100
questions I wish I would have asked you. Well, it
just so happens I don't have anything to do with it.
you think of something you think yeah if there's
some gaps if you wouldn't mind doing it again some
some even or you know a little bit more it wouldn't
wouldn't take as long as next time to answer a few
questions and uh john i'll uh i'm going to have a
transcript made of this and i'll bring a copy to you
for your own personal possession, and also, like
them, if you'd sign a release, that this tape and
that transcript can be used for research purposes
at the college.
Well, it's not wrong. I didn't ask you about any of
the houses of prostitution or so forth, or whether
you had any in Bryan, but what the economic impact
of those was.